docs/README.md, before:

# The Strandbeest fleet

- Github repository at [https://github.com/lbo462/starflit](https://github.com/lbo462/starflit).
- Documentation Pages at [https://lbo462.github.io/starflit](https://lbo462.github.io/starflit).

This project aims to automate a fleet of Strandbeest-like robots.

_Inspiration from [https://www.strandbeest.com/](https://www.strandbeest.com/)_.

Here lies all the documentation for the project.
You will find documentation for:

- the code (class structures, function definitions...)
- a more or less step by step summary of all the steps we went through for the development
- the electronic schematics of the robot
- the datasheets for the main components.

This documentation aims to be as exhaustive as possible so that whoever is interested will be able to build on this project seamlessly.

Have fun building 👷‍♂️👷‍♀️!

## Detailed list

Here's the list of all the document files and folder that you'll find here:

- [NetworkLab.md](NetworkLab.md) describes the network setup we needed to configure and develop on the RPis.
- [InitializeRPis.md](InitializeRPis.md) describes how we instantiated the RPis to work on them.
- [GitAndGithub.md](GitAndGithub.md) describes how we work with Git and GitHub.
- [DevEnv.md](DevEnv.md) describes what development environment we use and work on.
- [Doxygen.md](Doxygen.md) describes how to auto-generate the `html` doc.

### /resources

__Check the content of this folder in the [GitHub repo](https://github.com/lbo462/starflit/tree/master/docs/resources)__.

This folder contains:

- [datasheets](https://github.com/lbo462/starflit/tree/master/docs/resources/datasheets): All the datasheets of the hardware component we used.
- [schematics](https://github.com/lbo462/starflit/tree/master/docs/resources/shematics): The electronic schematics (in two parts) of the strandbeest robot as they were given to us.

Commit message:

Fine-tuning process notebook and documentation (#65)
* Added some docs

* Updated docs

* Fixed link and joke

docs/README.md, after:

# The Strandbeest fleet

- Github repository at [https://github.com/lbo462/starflit](https://github.com/lbo462/starflit).
- Documentation Pages at [https://lbo462.github.io/starflit](https://lbo462.github.io/starflit).

This project aims to automate a fleet of Strandbeest-like robots.

_Inspiration from [https://www.strandbeest.com/](https://www.strandbeest.com/)_.

Here lies all the documentation for the project.
You will find documentation for:

- the code (class structures, function definitions...)
- a more or less step by step summary of all the steps we went through for the development
- the electronic schematics of the robot
- the datasheets for the main components.

This documentation aims to be as exhaustive as possible so that whoever is interested will be able to build on this project seamlessly.

Have fun building 👷‍♂️👷‍♀️!

## Detailed list

Here's the list of all the document files and folder that you'll find here:

- [NetworkLab.md](NetworkLab.md) describes the network setup we needed to configure and develop on the RPis.
- [InitializeRPis.md](InitializeRPis.md) describes how we instantiated the RPis to work on them.
- [GitAndGithub.md](GitAndGithub.md) describes how we work with Git and GitHub.
- [DevEnv.md](DevEnv.md) describes what development environment we use and work on.
- [Doxygen.md](Doxygen.md) describes how to auto-generate the `html` doc.
- [RunningNNOnRPIs.md](RunningNNOnRPIs.md) describes how to run a neural network on a RPI, for our particular case.
- [TransferLearning.md](TransferLearning.md) describes how to fine tune a pre-trained model.

### /resources

__Check the content of this folder in the [GitHub repo](https://github.com/lbo462/starflit/tree/master/docs/resources)__.

This folder contains:

- [datasheets](https://github.com/lbo462/starflit/tree/master/docs/resources/datasheets): All the datasheets of the hardware component we used.
- [schematics](https://github.com/lbo462/starflit/tree/master/docs/resources/shematics): The electronic schematics (in two parts) of the strandbeest robot as they were given to us.
